



Biography
Dr Frederick Jesugbemi Oluwafemi Akinfala is a seasoned professional with a diverse career in the Nigerian economy's public and private sectors. Currently, he holds the position of Executive Director of Finance and Administration at the Nigeria Education Loan Fund (NELFUND), having previously served as the pioneering Director of Human Resources and General Services at the Nigerian Police Trust Fund. Before his role at the Nigerian Police Trust Fund, Dr Akinfala held the Head of Research and Development position at the Federal Inland Revenue Service. In addition to his professional career, he has contributed to academia as a lecturer at the University of Lagos.

Dr Akinfala's career journey began in banking and finance, working at esteemed institutions, including First Bank Plc, Aideas Banc Ltd, and Peninsula Credits Ltd. He later served as an Executive Director (Treasury Operations) at T S Mortgage Bank Ltd.

With a solid academic background, Dr Akinfala has focused his studies on Personnel Management, Bank Fraud, and Research and Development.   He holds a PhD (2005) and an M.Sc. degree (1990) from the esteemed University of First Choice and the nation's pride, the University of Lagos. He has a B.Sc. (1987) from the University of Ibadan. In 2006, he was elected as a University of Lagos's Senate member and served as a University of Lagos Consult board member. Between 2002 and 2006, he held the ex officio position and later the National Social Secretary of the University of Lagos Alumni Association. He also serves as the President of the Sickle Cell Club at the University of Lagos, Akoka.

As an active member of various professional organisations, Dr Akinfala is a proud member or fellow of associations such as the Institute of Organizational and Administrative Risk Management, the Chartered Institute of Cost and Management Accountants, the American Psychological Association, the International Organization of Criminological Psychology, Nigeria Institute of Security Studies, Institute of Management Consultants, Chartered Institute of Human Resources Management, and Nigeria Institute of Personnel Management.

In addition to his professional commitments, Dr Akinfala has authored numerous publications, journals, and articles that have become valuable references in the field of learning. Notably, he led a team of tax experts to develop the Federal Inland Revenue Service Tax Awareness Index, a scientific and standardised measurement of tax awareness level in Africa's history of tax administration. This measurement has been published in the International Journal of Business and Management 13(7):249 and translated into various languages, including Yoruba, Hausa, Igbo, English, Tiv, and French.

Driven by a passion for continuous professional development, Dr Akinfala has participated in various programs, training, and conferences on leadership, taxation, and finance on both national and international levels. He has attended training, seminars, and conferences in the United States, China, Morocco, Canada, Uruguay, Panama, Seychelles, Ghana, Kenya, Uganda, Ethiopia, Madagascar, Cuba, Costa Rica, and many others to expand his knowledge in tax, finance, and leadership-related matters.

Beyond his professional accomplishments, Dr Akinfala is dedicated to his family and is happily married with three children.
